1. Damage Deposits
If your landlord does not do the mandatory inspection reports, then your landlord cannot
 say that you did damage and make a claim to keep your security or pet damage deposit.
 The landlord loses the right to keep the deposit by not arranging to do a condition
 inspection report with you. However, you lose the right to the return of the security
  deposit if you do not participate in the move-in and move-out condition inspection reports.
Therefore, it is very important that both you and your landlord complete the inspection reports.

Your landlord must offer you a “first opportunity” for the inspection by giving
you one or more dates and times to do the inspection. The most a landlord can
 ask you to pay for a security deposit is a half month's rent.

When you move out, you must give your landlord a forwarding address in writing
where your security deposit can be sent. This is required by law.
After your landlord receives your forwarding address and you have moved out,
the landlord has 15 days to return your security deposit to you. The forwarding
address does not have to be where you live, but somewhere you can receive mail.

If the landlord wants to keep some or all of your deposit, you must either agree
to it in writing, or the landlord must apply for a dispute resolution hearing within
15 days from the day when you moved from your place and gave your forwarding address
in writing. If the landlord does not do this, you could make a claim for double
the amount of your security deposit. You have two years from when your tenancy
ended to make a claim for your deposit at the Residential Tenancy Branch.
However, in order to do this, you must provide your landlord with your
forwarding address in writing within one year after the end of your tenancy.

- look into rent calculator with  RTB

2. Repairs and Cleaning
  Your landlord must make sure your new place is clean and that everything works—before you move in.
  However, don't just expect that your landlord will have done this. You should protect yourself by checking everything
  before you move in! If the place needs repairs or cleaning right away, give your landlord a list of what needs to be done.
  Give the landlord a deadline for completing the repairs and cleaning. Sign and date the list, and keep a copy.


  Don't hold back your rent
    You may want to withhold your rent for your inconvenience or the cost of
    repairs you have done yourself. If you do this without getting a arbitrator's
    order, your landlord could evict you for non-payment of rent. It is better to
    apply for dispute resolution if you are having trouble getting your landlord
    to do repairs

If your landlord doesn't do the repairs or give back the service, send a letter. The demand letter should say:
  the address where you live,
  what needs fixing, and
  the date you want it fixed by.

3.  Illegal Rent Increase

4. Evictions
proper form?
sufficient notice?

  a. for not paying rent
    10 days notice
    5 days to apply for dispute resolution
    Direct request business
  b. for cause
    1-month notice
    10 days to apply for dispute resolution
    reasons:
      a. disturbing your neighbors
      b. repeatedly (3x) late rent
      c. seriously damaging your place
      d. not fixing damage done by guests
      e. causing danger to neighbors, landlords, etc.
      f. too many people living in your place
      g. illegal activity that adversely effects the landlord, building or other coo
      h. breaking a rule in your tenancy agreement and ignoring a written warning from landlord
    c. landlord use eviction
      2 month notice
      14 days to apply for dispute resolution
        f your landlord wants to evict you to demolish, renovate or convert
        your place to another use, they must already have permits from the city.
        municipal hall can tell you what permits are needed and whether landlord has them
        If you are given an eviction notice for "landlord use" you are entitled
        to one month’s rent as compensation from your landlord.

        If the landlord does not use the property for the reason stated on
        the eviction notice, you can ask for compensation. For example, your
        landlord might evict you because their immediate relative is moving in,
        but later you find out that the relative didn’t move in. If for at least
        six months after you moved the place was not used for the purpose stated
        on the notice, the landlord owes you the equivalent of double your
        monthly rent.

      To apply for dispute resolution: Vancouver area: 604-660-1020

    month to month lease
